>> Kadi Kraman: In this course,
we will be building our native
app on the local machine.
So for this, you need to set up your
local native build environment.
So you need specific special tools
to build the native app locally.
For iOS, you need X code.
X code is an app that's
available on the Mac App Store.
>> Kadi Kraman: And if you don't have this
downloaded and you want to build your iOS
app, this is only available on macOS, then
I recommend you start your download now
because as you can see, it is a 3.5
gigabyte download, which is wild.
And after you've downloaded it,
I would also open X code,
just using command space and
type in X code.
And the first time you open it,
it should also prompt you to install your
simulators, which is another
couple of gigabytes.
In order to build Android apps,
you need Android Studio.
So this is available for
Mac windows, and Linux, and
it is a smaller download, but
still worth starting early.
The best instructions for how to set
up your Native Build environment are on
the official React Native documentation.
So if you go to reactnative.dev and
set up your environment,
it has instructions on how to set up based
on your development operating system and
T target of what you want to build.
In this case, you will probably
have a node installed already but
it will tell you all the other things you
need to install so in case of Android,
you need to install Java.
You need to set your environment variables
for Java, home is the lander studio, etc.
So, I'm hoping to do a step by step
instruction on how to set up your build
environment because it will differ
based on whether you're on Windows or
Linux or Mac OS.
And whether you're doing iOS and Android
and it will just take a really long time.
So I recommend you download X code and
or Android Studio and
then follow these instructions on
the official React Native documentation.
We are in fact going to start
this workshop with Expo Go, so
if you look at our topics, we're
going to do a development build here.
So at this point, hopefully you have
your development environment set up.
Let's start by creating
a brand new project.
You will need to have node installed for
this so if you do node-V,
then we're looking for a long-term
support version, so in case of nodes,
the even-numbered versions
are long-term support.
So 18 is getting a bit old now,
but 20, 22 in the future, 24, etc.
I'm going to be using node 20.
And secondly, regarding package managers,
all modern package managers are supported,
so you can use npm, yarn-classic,
yarn-modern, pmpm, bun, etc.
I'm going to be using yarn-classic,
but you can use any of these.
But you can check the documentation if
you're using especially yarn-modern or
pmpm or bun to see if there's any
caveats around the installation.
So Yarn Classic is a little bit old now,
it's still popular among
React Native developers and
that's actually because this plug and
play model that Yarn 2 and
PMPM use was actually incompatible.
Well it is incompatible with how
React Native native modules are required.
So in our iOS and android directories,
we tend to import specific files,
from our node modules, but
the PMPM node linking model actually
gets rid of our node modules builder.
So this will break there
is a workaround now.
So if you have this config file by setting
the node link at the node modules, and
it's the same for PMPM, using node linker
hoisted, then you can still use these
package managers, but just FYI,
that's why I'm using Yarn 1, Yarn Classic.
So the command to create a new
X-Wire app is npx create X-Wire app.
>> Kadi Kraman: And to do-- help, it
will print out the usage information for
this command.
And mpx is a node package executor.
You get mpx when you install nodes,
so it's part of node, and
it lets you execute node packages without
installing them on your local machine.
So here, by default,
if you just create X web,
it will use a default template,
which has a bunch of code already set up.
So it will have navigation set up,
it will have dark and light mode,
it has a bunch of components.
And it's just meant to
give you a head start so
you have some code to start with and
you get an idea of where you can build.
You could reset this template,
but in this case,
let's just start with
a blank typescript template.
And the other thing here It gives you
commands here on how to create this
project on various package managers and
in our doc site are provided commands for
Yarn, npm, pmpm.
And bun to create an app called plantly
and trigger the default template.
So I'm going to be using yarn and
this should trigger this choose
a template prompt and I'm going to
choose a blank TypeScript template.
Now you might be wondering whether you
have to use TypeScript and honestly,
I'd very, very much recommend it.
Most modern software projects
these days use TypeScript and
it's very much become an industry
standard for JavaScript project.
So it is good for your career usually it's
a learn TypeScript if you haven't yet.
But if you really don't want to,
you can choose a blank
TypeScript template instead.
I'll be using TypeScript throughout
this course, but because TypeScript
is additive, you could remove the typing
information and write in JavaScript.
Now, this is some quick setup that I
always do whenever I start a new project,
which is set up linting.
So ESLint and Prettier go hand-in-hand.
ESLint is a code linter and
Prettier is a code formatter.
So ESLint tells you if you're
doing something incorrect and
Prettier just formats your code so
you can focus on writing your code rather
than worrying about where
your braces should go.
From sdk50, there is a CLI command
that sets up ESLint for you.
So if we cd into our newly created
directory and npx expo lint.
And because I don't have ESLint set up,
It will prompt me if I want to install
ESL and configure it on this project.
Let's choose yes.
>> Kadi Kraman: Now when
I open this project,
you see that it's created
this ESLint RC for us.
I also want to set up prettier and for
this we need to install some libraries.
So if you're using yarn, you want to use
this otherwise use NPX, explore, install.
>> Kadi Kraman: And
we want to update our ESLint RC
to include the Prettier plugin and
some rules.
>> Kadi Kraman: Lovely and
the good thing about Prettier is that you
get that all the pretty
arrows are all fixable, yeah.
So now that I've added this, I'm expecting
to see some prettier errors here.
And that's because Prettier
defaults to double quotes.
The good thing is that we can run MPX.
>> Kadi Kraman: We can run your
lint command with-- fix and
it will automatically update these.
So you'll then command was added
automatically to your scripts.
So it would just be ESLint so it will
be mpm run lint or yarn lint or etc.
To now run your project you
want to start the bundler.
So as I mentioned earlier, we're going to
be using the Expo Go Standbox initially.
So we want to run the start command
to start the metro bundler on here.
So let's do yarn start or
you can do mpx expo start.
>> Kadi Kraman: This will print out a QR
code that you can scan in with Expo Go.
I'm gonna plug in my phone to show you.
Okay, I'm gonna uninstall Expo go so
we're starting from scratch just in case.
So on iOS you will go to the App Store,
search for Expo Go.
>> Kadi Kraman: You want
to install the app.
>> Kadi Kraman: And we'll open it.
>> Kadi Kraman: So on iOS, you can
scan their QR code in app and actually
originally Expo Go had this functionality,
but Apple wasn't happy about it.
So now the way that you
open your app in Expo Go on
iOS is you open your camera app and
then scan it.
And then this will deep link into Expo Go.
Now, if you've just installed it,
this won't work the first time, so
I found that I need to
start quizzing the app and
then you will prompt me if I want to
connect to devices on my local network.
So I'll do allow and just do camera again.
>> Kadi Kraman: Okay, so
now this is my app from my local
dev server running on Expo Go.
You need to make sure that your phone is
connected to the same Wi-Fi network as
your computer and that's because this
bundling process is running on local
host so
you need to be on the same network.
If for some reason that isn't possible or
it isn't working then you can actually
get around it by using tunnel.
You can do mpx expo start --tunnel.
The first time you run this, it will
prompt you to install an Ngrok package.
But then what this does is that it exposes
this JavaScript bundle to a web API.
So you could scan it and
run it without being on the same network.
And this is actually a really cool because
it allows you, you could conceivably,
if you're working with someone, let's
say in Australia and you're in the US,
you could run a local dev server.
You can give them the link and
they could run it on their phone,
which is pretty cool.
Let me just show you
this on Android as well.
>> Kadi Kraman: There you go on my
android phone, let me just delete.
>> Kadi Kraman: I still X forego, so
we're starting from the same point.
So we're gonna go to the playstore.
>> Kadi Kraman: And search for
Expo Go and install it.
>> Kadi Kraman: And we open it.
And you notice that on your Android phone,
you do have an option to scan
the QR code in app because Android doesn't
have the same restriction than as iOS.
So we'll go scan the QR code,
allow the permissions, and
then we can scan this, and it will open
our local app on our Android phone.
>> Kadi Kraman: Again If
this isn't working,
make sure that you're on the same
network as your computer,
and if it still isn't working,
then try the -- tunnel option.
So it is actually quite especially common
on windows, we've found, because windows
has a firewall, so the dev server
doesn't always get around the firewall.
So you can change the firewall
to allow that port, but
as a quick workaround
you can use -- tunnel.
You can not use it,
that will be preferred though because
it will be a bit faster on Logo host.
And lastly, I'm going to be, it will be
handy for me to run this on a simulator.
So I'm actually going to run this
locally instead of on a phone,
so it'll be easier to screen share.
>> Kadi Kraman: There we go.
>> Kadi Kraman: So
this was our starting point.